[THEME MUSIC]
>>RICHARD MARTINI:
On her deathbed,
my close friend said she thought
she was going to another galaxy
after her death.
She said she had a
recurring vision.
She was in a classroom with
everyone dressed in white,
in a class about spirituality.
And some months
after her death, I
had a spontaneous out-of-body
experience, where she guided me
to that place, her galaxy.
I felt I had actually
been to visit
my dear friend in her
new part of the universe.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
You know, nothing
fascinates me more
than the existence of
the afterlife and that's
what we're talking
about on tonight's show.
>>ANNOUNCER: He's your tour
guide to the afterlife.
In his book and
related documentary,
"Flipside," author and
award-winning filmmaker Richard
Martini uncovered new
evidence for life after death.
"Flipside" explored the work
of hypnotherapy pioneer Dr.
Michael Newton, including
hypnotherapist interviews,
footage of past
life regressions,
and sessions that
explore what happens
during the time between lives.
After a literary
quest that took him
as far as Tibet and to the
frontiers of consciousness,
Richard reveals what he has
found today on "Beyond Belief."
>>NOORY: And Richard's
other book, of course,
"Hacking the Afterlife."
I love that title.
>>MARTINI: Isn't that cool?
>>NOORY: It is.
It's high technology.
>>MARTINI: Well, it
sounds like high tech
but I realized as I was
doing this research that I
was getting information from
people on the other side
that we could use here.
And I realized that
there was a method
that we could figure out how
to talk to somebody who's
no longer on the planet
and ask them for help,
whether it's how
to turn salt water
into fresh water for
pennies or whatever
those questions might be.
And I thought, well,
what a wonderful way
to get information from people
who've been here before.
Now, of course, people
have been doing that
since the dawn of time, mediums
and psychics and everything.
But in this case, I'm sort
of taking the research
that I've done
before in "Flipside"
and "It's a Wonderful Afterlife"
kind of like the blueprint
of the flipside, the
blueprint of the afterlife,
and taking a look at it to
see how can I ask people
over there the
answers to questions
that we'd like to know here?
You know, the usual thing
when you see a medium is you
sit down and you're there
to learn two things.
What's my future and
do I have a soul mate?
And my idea was instead of
doing that, why don't we
sit with somebody who has a
mouthpiece to the other side
and ask them if they can
ask people questions.
That's
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>MARTINI: So I'm doing your
gig with people on the flipside.
>>NOORY: I love that.
>>MARTINI: It's like I'm-- I
mean, I learned at your foot.
I mean, because you're
so good at what you do.
But the idea of.
>>NOORY: You may kiss my ring.
>>MARTINI: But you are
really good at that.
You're really good at allowing a
guest to sound completely sane,
we know that.
But also to elicit
things from people.
So that's what I'm trying
to do, elicit information
from people who are no
longer on the planet.
Now, people could argue,
you're imagining this.
But if what they
say or you imagine
turns out to be something
that's valuable to people then
is there any harm?
>>NOORY: So be it.
>>MARTINI: Exactly.
When I was younger, I read
"The Tibetan Book of the Dead"
and you've got a little
experience with things
that happen in Tibet.
What's so important about that?
>>MARTINI: Well, I'll tell
you, that kind of set me
on this journey because I had
a friend who had passed away
and she came to visit me or it
felt like she came to visit me.
But a number of things
that I observed.
She was younger than
when I knew her.
Her spirit seemed like
she was in her 20s.
I had met her in her 30s.
But she had passed
away and so now,
here she was showing me
things, taking me around
in what felt like an
out-of-body experience.
And I thought, well, how
does she know how to do this?
How can she have access
to me in this way?
And I thought,
well, she had been
a Buddhist for a long time.
And I thought, well, maybe
Buddhism has some clue
into the afterlife.
I was flying to New York City,
and I picked up the "New York
Times" magazine and there was
an article about Robert Thurman.
And in the article,
Robert talked about
how the old professor
that he had had--
>>NOORY: That's Uma's father.
>>RICHARD MARTINI: Uma's
father, correct, yeah.
And talking about the
old teacher that he had.
When he had gone to visit the
reincarnation of his teacher,
the teacher-- and Bob
has told me this story
a couple of times--
teacher looked at him
and said, Thurman-- he was five
years old-- he said, Thurman,
I was so disappointed in you
when you left the monkhood.
And Thurman said--
because no one knew
that he was coming to this
meeting-- and he said,
the kid looked just like,
suddenly his face looked just
like his old teacher.
And he tried to
explain to him, well,
I felt it was necessary to teach
Buddhism on a grander scale.
And the kid seemed
happy with that
and went off on his tricycle.
And I thought,
well, Thurman must
have some insight into the
flipside, how to get there.
And Bob had actually done
a wonderful translation
of "The Tibetan
Book of the Dead."
And so I went to
New York City and I
audited his philosophy class.
You know, film guy,
television guy,
working on the "Charles
Grodin Show" by day
and then I sneak into
this philosophy class.
But it was fascinating
and as a result of that,
Bob and I became friends and
we went to Tibet together.
I filmed a documentary
of us going around Mount
Kailash, many other things.
But as I studied "The
Tibetan Book of the Dead,"
it's one monk's observation
of what happens when we die,
very accurate.
And by the way, if you have any
hospice people that come by,
they have a list of what
happens if somebody passes away.
It's identical to "The
Tibetan Book of the Dead,"
the different dissolutions.
But in "The Tibetan
Book of the Dead,"
this one monk said, once
we get into the bardo,
the between lives realm,
we're like a wisp of smoke
and we float around
until karma dictates
where we're going to return.
Now, in my experiences
visiting Luana Anders,
my friend who had passed
away, I felt fully conscious.
I didn't feel like
a wisp of smoke.
So I thought, well, that
doesn't seem accurate to me.
And that's when I ran into the
work of Michael Newton, who
over his 30, 40-year career,
he had over 7,000 patients
under deep hypnosis.
>>NOORY: He just passed.
>>MARTINI: He just
passed away last week
and appeared with
me a couple days ago
while I was having
lunch with a medium.
>>NOORY: After he passed.
>>MARTINI: After he passed.
She turned to me and said,
Michael Newton is here.
And I went, what do you mean?
She said, he just appeared
over your shoulder.
She doesn't know Michael Newton.
I said, what's he
here to tell us?
He said it's important to
remember the people who
have gone on the flipside.
He said everyone has the
ability to communicate
to their loved ones who have
passed, not just mediums.
That's what he said.
Everyone has that ability.
It's a matter of tuning.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>MARTINI: And
then I said, well,
how can I-- I'm going
to be on George's show.
Is there anything
you want me to say?
And he said, try to find
a space in your life
where you remember those
who were your loved
ones because they still exist
and they're happy to be called
to your dinner table.
So, I said, you mean, like
Thanksgiving dinner put out
some extra chairs like
Elijah and the Seder,
put out an extra chair
for your loved ones
and talk about them
over Thanksgiving?
And he said, yeah.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MARTINI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You don't
look weird doing that?
>>MARTINI: Well, of course,
you know, is it a seance?
>>NOORY: I've got Thanksgiving
come up, who knows?
>>MARTINI: Here's
what I'm saying,
is when you do your Thanksgiving
put out an extra chair and then
just say-- and maybe
put out something that--
>>NOORY: Or your
Christmas or whatever.
>>MARTINI: Whatever.
Put out something they owned,
maybe a scarf, maybe a thing,
because it helps you focus.
Or a photograph, very
simple, and then,
meditate a little bit on
where was that picture taken,
who were these people,
et cetera, et cetera.
And allow yourself to ask them
questions in present tense.
So in other words,
how are you doing?
And I hope you're having fun.
Now, I'm sure you're
aware of this,
many cultures treat
the dead differently
than we do in the West.
>>NOORY: We are a
little standoffish.
>>MARTINI: Well, we're like,
oh, put them in the coffin
and get them under.
But I noticed that the
Mexican culture and there's
a lot of cemeteries
in Los Angeles
right around New Year's,
Christmas, families
go and put out a picnic.
And they sit around
and they celebrate.
>>NOORY: They celebrate.
They have a great time.
>>MARTINI: Exactly and so
here's what I'm saying,
the research shows, the
data shows, we don't die.
>>NOORY: And you're convinced
of that yourself, right?
>>MARTINI: I'm convinced that
that's what the data shows.
Even if I didn't
believe it, I can't
argue with thousands of people.
>>NOORY: The facts.
>>MARTINI: The facts.
And so once you allow
that we don't die,
then everything kind of goes
up-- so why punish people
or why try to kill
somebody for vengeance?
You can't kill them.
>>NOORY: You can't.
>>MARTINI: They're
still going to exist.
You've given them a
one-way ticket out of here
and maybe they wanted to go.
>>NOORY: They may come back and
get you and take you with them.
>>MARTINI: They
haven't disappeared.
And so "The Tibetan
Book of the Dead"
talks about that, in
terms of how we get there.
>>NOORY: It's a training guide
for the living, isn't it?
>>MARTINI: It's a training
guide for how you depart.
However, as I've
talked to Bob about,
Newton had these 7,000
people, Helen Wambach,
Dr. Helen Wambach, also
10 years before Newton,
same thing, hypnosis,
same amount of clients,
2,000 clients.
They all talk about that we
choose to come back here.
We choose our parents.
We choose who we're going
to be, male or female.
>>NOORY: We have that choice.
>>MARTINI: It's apparently
based on free will.
That report is consistent
and if it was different
I would report it but it's not.
And so if it is
true, that we choose
to come here and choose--
that we're not a wisp of smoke
between lives, that what people
say is that only about a third
of our energy comes here
but 2/3 of our energy
is always outside
the pool, offstage.
>>NOORY: If you
choose, though, Rich,
why do some people choose
lousy parents, you know--
>>MARTINI: Excellent question.
>>NOORY: Who abuse them
and things like that?
>>MARTINI: Excellent question
and I ask people that.
I say, to them, you know, so
why did you choose your parents?
>>NOORY: I mean, I did well.
I picked great parents.
>>MARTINI: Me, too.
But most of our friends
will say, I didn't choose.
Are you out of your mind?
Why would I choose these people?
And I say, that's
why you're sitting
in front of me telling me this
sentence because you got away
from them as fast as you could.
You overcame the difficulty.
When we go to the
theater and we watch
somebody overcome a
problem or a dilemma,
they've learned something.
They've mastered that.
They turned the big piece
of charcoal into a diamond.
>>NOORY: Right, they
take an adverse situation
and make it better.
>>MARTINI: And they
have learned from it.
They've overcome it.
They're smarter than we
are because we didn't
have to overcome that stuff.
Those people have mastered
those lessons and we don't die.
So it's almost
like a university.
You come to class.
You go through difficult things.
I know this is stressful
for people to hear,
especially with they've gone
through stressful things.
I totally understand that.
>>NOORY: Everybody has.
>>MARTINI: Everybody has but
if you can just reframe it--
because in this
book, this new book,
I interview people under deep
hypnosis about their life
planning session, where
they talk about who's
going to play the bad guy.
And the person has to volunteer.
And they'll say, would you
play my alcoholic parent for me
and that person could say, no.
I did it, you know,
the Viking era.
>>NOORY: Don't want to go there.
>>MARTINI: I don't
want to do it again.
I hated that.
But this person says,
you were so good at it
and if you don't
play the part, I'll
never learn the lesson
I'm signing up for.
So the idea is,
like on a stage, who
are the characters we remember?
We remember the bad
guys, you know, the ones
who make it difficult for us.
>>NOORY: Very rarely do we
remember the good things.
People remember the bad.
I don't know why but they do.
>>MARTINI: Well, I think it goes
back to the original Aristotle
thing of poetics, that the
essence of drama is conflict.
And so if you're coming
here to experience things
like being in a
play, then the stuff
that you want to really get
into on the football field
or inside the pool is
the dilemmas, you know,
the conflict.
And so you overcome
that conflict
so that you can master it.
And if we come
here often, a lot,
doesn't that make sense to
leave behind a campground that's
fresh air.
>>NOORY: You would think so.
>>MARTINI: You would think so.
>>NOORY: Tell me about the
title, "Hacking the Afterlife."
I like that.
What do you mean by that?
>>MARTINI: Well, what
I mean specifically
is, once I came
upon this conclusion
for myself, that we don't die,
then that means, oddly enough,
everybody who's ever
been here still exists.
If that's true then therefore,
can't we access them?
So I started asking
people who have access
to the flipside or people
who are under deep hypnosis
or what I've recently
discovered is
that just having a conversation
with someone, because I'm
so familiar with
this architecture,
I'm so familiar with the
process-- I know this sounds
odd-- but just having a regular
conversation with somebody
over coffee and asking them
to recall a previous lifetime,
they can do it.
What I say is, try not to judge
whatever comes to your mind.
And then I'll say, let's go
to a previous lifetime that
has some significance
in this lifetime, which
is what they say in the
hypnotherapy questions,
but you're in a
noisy coffee shop.
And I say, let's imagine
yourself going through
a tunnel, imagine yourself
going down some stairs,
and now, when we get
there where are we?
Is it day or is it night?
They'll say, I don't know.
And you say, well, just
whatever comes to mind.
The subconscious is always
aware of what I'm asking.
>>NOORY: It's always working.
>>MARTINI: It's always
working and it has access
to all that information
because there
is no delete key in the brain.
Everything is stored.
So I will then ask-- or
wherever memory is held.
So I ask, is it
day or is it night?
Are you a man or
are you a woman?
Are you tall?
Are you short?
How old are you?
Friend of mine--
>>NOORY: And you
get those answers?
>>MARTINI: A friend
of mine suddenly--
it started like this.
My friend said, oh, in
college, I did hypnotherapy.
I tried it and it didn't work.
And I said, what did you see?
He said, I saw a
guy with a beard.
And I said, OK,
let's-- can we talk?
Who was the guy with the beard?
And he said, I don't know.
I said, no, just
open up your mind.
Whatever.
Who was the guy with the beard?
He went, oh, it's a prince.
And eventually, he
came to the story
that he was an assassin in 1820,
sent to kill a Spanish royalty
but they caught him.
They tortured him and he
gave up all his friends
and they were all executed.
This is over coffee.
And then I said, so
where did you live?
He said Taormina.
He had never heard of Taormina.
I know Taormina is in Italy but
was part of the Spanish empire
in 1820.
So I said, let's go
into the between lives.
I said, let's go to the
last day of your life.
Where would you like to go?
He says, I want to go home.
And now we get somewhere.
And I say, is there anybody who
can help us answer a question?
Somebody came forth and I said,
why are you letting my friend
experience this today?
Why are you allowing him
to see this lifetime?
And she said, to
show him that there's
no action that you can commit
that you can't recover from.
>>NOORY: Because I would
assume that afterlife wasn't
a very pleasant one for him.
>>MARTINI: But it's
memorable because it's still
under the surface.
>>NOORY: Do you learn
lessons when you come back?
I've always thought
reincarnation, Rich,
was a process of getting better,
reaching stages of perfection.
Where one day you don't
reincarnate anymore.
You're in heaven or
whatever that state is.
You just don't
come back anymore.
But each time you do, you get
better and better and better.
And I've always
said, the mere fact
that you and I are
talking about this,
we've been elevated somehow.
I don't know how many more
reincarnated lives we both have
but we're getting
pretty close to the top.
>>MARTINI: Well, I think
that depends on you.
So when you get back
to the flipside,
OK, and you're back
with your soul group
and everyone's around
you and they go, George,
that was an amazing life.
You helped so many people.
You opened so many doors.
You connected so
many different dots
that people hadn't
connected before.
Good job.
And you're like, yeah, thanks.
I didn't do so good when I
was like 17 but whatever.
You go through that stuff and
then your loved ones say, now
listen, I'm thinking
we have a new scenario
we would like to go through.
Would you participate?
And you can say,
I don't think so.
I feel like I've got
enough information.
But your guides may say,
George, isn't there something
you might want to work out that
you haven't worked out before?
And you start
thinking, well, yeah
there is that little weird thing
about jealousy or whatever.
Yeah, I can work that out.
I'll do that.
In my case-- and I mention this
in "Hacking the Afterlife."
I did one of these
sessions where--
I've done five now, where I just
focused on the life planning
story.
And I saw myself sitting on
a sound stage, a sound stage,
with an audience.
And I'm sitting around
with a bunch of people,
including my father.
And I was saying,
well, it just went
without saying that wherever
my dad was going to be
I was going to show up.
And it didn't matter
to me whether I
was going to be a girl
or a boy because that's
kind of our journey.
We like to go on trips together.
I saw it from that perspective
that I hadn't really
thought out-- like, I had chosen
to be a filmmaker because I
said, under the hypnosis, that
every action, thought, word,
or deed, every time you
paint a picture, sing a song,
do a show, some
part of your energy
goes into the universe
and heals people,
changes people's disposition.
In my case, I chose
comedy because laughter
is the best medicine.
>>NOORY: It is a great medicine.
>>MARTINI: Great medicine.
I said, tears work
but they require
catharsis, a word I've never
used in a sentence before.
But ultimately,
the reason I chose
Rich was because I
thought, in a casual way,
that film would be a
way of healing people.
So George, the question is this,
here we are in our soul group
100 years from now.
And I say to you, I
got this great idea.
You're going to
come back, you're
going to be a
captain of this ship.
You're going to save all
these-- what do you think?
It'll be fun.
We'll have a blast together.
And it's up to you to say,
I'm having may cappuccino back
here.
So you see what I'm saying?
It's up to you.
>>NOORY: Art critic
Robert Hughes
would write a lot
about Francisco Goya,
the incredible
artist at the time.
Let's look at that video.
That will explain a lot.
>>ROBERT HUGHES: Ever since I
started writing art criticism
more than 40 years ago I've
dealt with thousands of images
but I've always been fascinated
by one particular artist,
a Spaniard, Francisco Goya.
This man was one of the
most radical artists
that ever lived.
For years, I've been
trying and failing
to write a book about him.
And in a weird way that I
didn't expect, but how could I,
he took me over.
About three years ago, I was
nearly killed in a car wreck.
Six weeks in coma,
months in hospital.
No white light.
No smiling Jesus.
Only darkness and
hallucination and the creatures
of Goya's imagination
mocking and chattering.
The whores and duchesses and
witches, corrupt priests,
all laughing at me in the
certainty that this wrecked
[INAUDIBLE] imprisoned
by the ruin of his body
could never reach into
their world, Goya's world.
But in some way, nearly dying
brought me nearer to him.
>>NOORY: That experience
changed Robert Hughes's life
after that motorcycle accident.
It literally scared the living
daylights out of him again.
What is that darkness that
you sometimes encounter?
>>MARTINI: Thank God.
Thank God it scared
Robert Hughes.
I mean, this is a guy, as a
critic, who's been criticizing
people his whole life.
And suddenly he got
a glimpse of what
it was like to be a critic.
And it could very well be that
his higher guides are saying--
>>NOORY: They did that to him.
>>MARTINI: Yeah,
take a look at what
you've been doing to
people your whole life.
>>NOORY: Change.
>>MARTINI: Making
people feel miserable
and this is what it feels like.
My experience with this is-- and
I've seen it a number of times
during a session-- I'm not
doing the hypnosis, I'm filming.
But the hypnotherapist
says, after a lifetime
has been lived, where
would you like to go?
And now they sense
themselves in a dark place,
the sulfur smelling--
>>NOORY: As he did.
>>MARTINI: As he did.
But of course, everybody
sees it differently.
He sees Goya.
Nobody else sees Goya.
>>RICHARD MARTINI: I
wouldn't have seen Goya.
>>MARTINI: I wouldn't
have seen Goya.
but this one woman
we were filming,
who worked with Steve
Jobs, she suddenly
saw sulfur and scary things.
And so the hypnotherapist
said, so why are we here?
Why did you choose to come here?
And when he asked
that question, it
dissolved because everything
we experience is a choice.
Dr. Rajiv Parti-- I think he
might have been on your show--
but he was a guy who had
a near death experience
and within it, he went
to a hellacious place,
where he saw people with horns.
>>NOORY: Oh, my god.
I would think it would be hell.
>>MARTINI: Exactly and I
said, well, hang on a second.
What's wrong with horns?
Horns are made of matted hair.
That's what horns are.
Many animals have horns.
You saw a rhino walk
onto your set today,
would you think,
oh, I'm in hell?
You'd think, how
did you get on here?
My point is, we
associate these things
with what we're familiar with.
>>NOORY: Right,
things we're taught.
>>MARTINI: As soon as
you ask, while you're
in either conscious or
unconsciously or under
hypnosis, why did you
choose to come here?
It dissolves because those
are just mental pictures
that we have created.
All I can say is, consistently,
near death experiences,
out-of-body experiences,
and the thousands of cases
I've examined and
the 35 I've filmed,
these people eventually--
once they go beyond the Goya,
if they choose to
go to the Goya--
they go to a place of
unconditional love.
Even Alexander goes to that
place of unconditional love
and he gets a tour.
And what I'm focusing on,
"Hacking the Afterlife,"
is new information
gained from over there.
So Dr. Alexander's
case is great.
He goes-- he has a
near death-- great.
You know what I mean.
He has a near death experience.
>>NOORY: Changes his life.
>>MARTINI: Changes his
life but while he's there,
he is given a tour by a
young, beautiful woman who
he has never seen before.
He doesn't know who
she is but he feels
like he's known her forever.
She guides him around.
Six months after the
experience, the family
that put him up for adoption
sends him a photograph.
He didn't know that he
had a sister who died.
When he sees the photograph,
he recognizes her instantly.
So that's new information
from the flipside.
New information,
meaning he never--
couldn't have been cryptomnesia,
couldn't have been hypoxia.
He's meeting someone that he's
never met before in this life
but he has before.
And so that idea
of new information
is what I'm focusing on.
My father, after he passed,
woke me up one night.
Shook me.
I felt his hand on my shoulder.
I heard him say, I'm
experiencing indescribable joy.
That's something I'd
never heard him say.
He said, I want you
to tell your mother,
get a pencil and
a piece of paper.
Write this down.
Tell your mother I love here.
It's beautiful here.
I'm with so-and-so and
so-and-so, people I knew.
He said, and I'm also with,
and he named six people.
I wrote their names down.
At the end of the
conversation, also
not wondering if I'm making
this up, I said to him,
why are you telling me this?
He said, because you can hear
me, as opposed to my brothers.
And then the next
morning, I said to my mom,
who are these six people?
And she said, oh,
those are his friends
who died in World War II.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTINI: Not people
that I've ever been aware
of or heard their names before.
He's giving me a new piece
of information, you see?
So once you get beyond
the, oh, my god, this
is my father talking
to me or, oh,
my god, this is Goya's scary
people, start asking questions.
Why?
Why are we here?
You're fully conscious.
You're aware.
You're able to ask
questions, to look around.
So I'm saying, drop the fear.
Let go of the fear.
Allow yourself to ask
questions of the flipside
that you never thought you
could get the answers to.
>>NOORY: Is it easy to
drop the fear, Rich?
Because a lot of people are
petrified of the other side.
>>MARTINI: Yeah,
what's that about?
>>NOORY: They think
it's evil and dark.
>>MARTINI: So here's
what I try to picture.
Imagine us in a pool.
We're in a pool,
swimming around.
And we're not above the surface.
Maybe we go up for oxygen
but most of the time
we're down here.
>>NOORY: Are we scuba diving?
>>MARTINI: Yeah, we're scuba
diving but without masks.
And we see, we have our
journey in this water.
>>NOORY: You need a mask.
>>MARTINI: OK, so we're in--
but we're having this journey,
right, under the water.
Once we step out of the
pool, and we can all
sit there and go, outside
the pool it's really scary.
It's finding Nemo time once
you're outside the pool.
But once we get
outside the pool,
we find out that's
not the case at all.
That everybody in the pool
has been using that as power
to try to scare us.
I mean, a lot of
people use it as power
to try to scare us to behave.
>>NOORY: To control.
>>MARTINI: To toe the
line, to do the thing
that you're supposed to do.
And I'm saying, dude, once
we're outside the pool,
once you see that it's all
about unconditional love--
the reason we get in the pool
is so that we can remember what
it's like outside the pool.
So we can remember what
unconditional love is.
So we get into the
pool and experience
non-conditional or
conditional love.
I only love you if you're
going to vote for me.
But once we get
outside the pool,
beyond the light,
as people say--
and I ask people this question.
And I can do it now talking
to someone consciously who
had a near death experience.
I'll say, go to the moment
when you got to the light.
Experience it again.
And while we're
having coffee, they're
able to say, OK, I'm there.
And then I say,
describe it to me.
What's the light look like?
Then they give me
their definition.
And then I ask,
what's it feel like?
And almost always, they say it
feels like unconditional love.
>>NOORY: If more people
will experience that,
we'd have a better planet.
>>MARTINI: Well it's a term
that you and I both know
what I'm talking about but
we don't use it in real life.
You don't see it on TV shows.
You don't see it anywhere.
We are aware of it,
mother to child or parent
to child, unconditional-- or
a pet, unconditional love.
You did something bad
but I still love you.
That's the natural
state of things.
state of who we are,
which is what people say.
It's not me.
This is what
thousands are saying.
Our natural state is
unconditional love
for everybody, regardless
of race, creed, color,
age, doesn't matter,
unconditional love.
We come here to experience like
being on stage, adventures,
drama, flight, planes.
I'm sure I mentioned
Amelia Earhart showed up
in this research.
>>NOORY: You've talked about
that on our "Coast to Coast"
show.
You channel her, don't you?
>>MARTINI: Not me.
A close friend of mine, Phillip
Noyce, the film director,
said (AUSTRALIAN
ACCENT) Martini--
he's Australian, sorry.
Pardon my strange accent.
Martini thinks he
talks to the dead.
And I said, no Phillip, I talk
to people who talk to the dead.
So in this case, I was
working on the movie "Salt"
with Phillip in 2008,
having lunch with a friend.
And the friend says,
I want you to meet
Pattie Canova she's a medium.
I was like, eh, mediums.
I didn't know that
much about them.
James Van Praagh, he had
helped me talk to Luana once.
>>NOORY: He's one of the best.
>>MARTINI: He's one of the best.
Actually, Luana
came through to him
and said to James Van Praagh,
Richard's got a photograph
of us on his refrigerator
that's the essence
of our relationship.
And when I put that picture
up, I said it aloud.
Look, the essence
of our relationship.
So I knew beyond a
shadow of a doubt that
was her talking to me
through James Van Praagh.
>>NOORY: Rich, you've
done extensive work
investigating the life and
the death of Amelia Earhart.
I want to take a look
at a little video first.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: Amelia
Earhart came of age
as the golden age of aviation
was getting into swing.
In 1920, Amelia went to an air
show in Long Beach, California,
where stunt pilots
showed off their skill
and daring in front
of stunned audiences.
She fell head over heels
in love with the spectacle.
Amelia was desperate
to try it herself.
She wrote in her diary.
"Finally, one day came
the chance to ride.
By the time I got 200 or
300 feet off the ground,
I knew I had to fly.
Flying was seen as
unfit for ladies
but Amelia was no
ordinary young woman.
She took a job as a truck
driver to finance her pilot
certificate.
Flying had become her passion.
>>NOORY: So Richard, that's
a little set of her career
and how she got into flying.
But then she took
that ominous trip.
You're convinced,
of course, she crash
landed somewhere near an
island, probably died there.
>>MARTINI: Not on the island.
>>NOORY: But not on the island.
Does she, through the
afterlife communications,
talk to anybody about
what happened to her?
>>MARTINI: Well, in
my case, all I can do
is just what happened to me.
And in my case,
like I was saying,
Patti Canova and I were
having lunch and she said,
you're doing a
film about Amelia--
I had been working on
a film about Amelia
for about 20 years
at that point.
And she said, you're doing
a film about Amelia Earhart.
She wants to talk to you.
And at first, I thought,
did she look me up online?
I looked at my friend,
like, what is this?
And then I thought, what
am I being resistant for?
OK, let me talk to her.
Yeah, so I spent two
hours interviewing her.
She told me new information.
She told me the name
of her lover, a woman,
that she had an open
marriage with her husband.
She told me how
she met this woman.
She told me that there was a
military nature of the flight
but that she wasn't part of that
planning, et cetera, et cetera.
A lot of details,
details many of which
I already knew because
of all my research.
I worked on the movie "Amelia."
I was their digital
media curator,
doing research and stuff.
So ultimately, some years later,
I ran into channelingerik.com
and I became friends with Dr.
Medhus, you've had on the show.
And so I said, you should
talk to Amelia sometime.
And she said, we're
talking to her next week.
So I submitted the questions.
>>NOORY: To Amelia.
>>MARTINI: To Amelia
but I wasn't there.
So it's Dr. Medhus
asking the questions
to Jamie Butler in Atlanta
and Amelia answering them.
And in the course
of the question,
I threw in this
question, disguised--
>>NOORY: To trick them, right?
>>MARTINI: Well, to see
if this was really her.
>>NOORY: To see if
this was real or not.
>>MARTINI: Yeah and
the question was,
who was the love of your
life and was it a painter?
No gender.
>>NOORY: Nobody would
have known this, right?
>>MARTINI: Yes, nobody
would have known this.
And she paused and said,
I hate to rewrite history
but yes, the love of my life
was this woman who was a painter
and then went on to
describe this woman.
>>GEORGE NOORY: When
you heard that answer--
>>MARTINI: I was
like, oh, my gosh.
But beyond that, at the
very end of the interview,
when asked about her death,
she suddenly stopped and said,
I don't want to
talk about my death.
I think people who are
trying to dig for me,
it's a waste of time.
I'm here on the flipside.
you don't have to waste
your time looking for me.
I thought, OK, well,
that's a message to me.
And so I kind of put it aside.
But when I was
writing this book,
I was transcribing that session
and when I got to the end,
she said-- I just
didn't hear it.
But the person who
supplied these questions,
if he wants to talk to me
privately, I'll talk to him.
>>NOORY: That's you.
>>MARTINI: That's me.
So now, I swear, a week
later, I get a call
from Jennifer Shaffer.
Jennifer, she's here in
Manhattan Beach in Los Angeles.
She works with the FBI.
She does missing person cases.
She was just in Colorado.
They were just doing
a thing about her.
And I said, look, I'm not
that much into mediums
but how would you like to
work on the most famous
missing person case in history?
She was like, I'm in.
So I spent three hours
interviewing her,
Amelia, asking where are you?
What are you doing,
et cetera, et cetera.
And in the course of
this conversation,
Amelia said, well,
I died of dysentery.
Which is, I had been to Saipan.
I had already been
to the cell that she
was-- so her plane
came down, Amelia told.
She landed it.
>>NOORY: Japanese got her.
>>MARTINI: Japanese picked
her up, took her to Saipan.
She spent her time.
Fred Noonan was executed
for being a spy.
He was the one they
blamed for being a spy.
She was put in a cell.
She died of dysentery.
Her body was buried.
It was dug up by GIs.
Fred Goerner's book
comments on that.
And her plane was found.
Her briefcase was found.
I interviewed GIs
who found her plane.
I interviewed GIs, on camera,
who found her briefcase.
>>NOORY: Would you
ever have gotten
this information had
you not worked with her
and channeled her?
>>MARTINI: Well, all that
stuff I had already gotten.
I had already interviewed
the GIs who found her plane,
found her briefcase.
>>NOORY: But this
corroborated it.
>>MARTINI: This
corroborated it, absolutely.
And I didn't mention it to
anybody because it was like,
how do you tell
people, oh, by the way,
I heard this from herself.
But in this particular case,
I said, how did you die?
This question that she wouldn't
answer with Jamie Butler.
And she said, dysentery.
Where's your body?
She said, well,
two GIs dug me up.
She said, but they
only found my arm.
I said, what?
Do you mean they
only found her arm?
That doesn't make sense.
And then 10 minutes
later, after I
had done with this session,
my head's swimming, like,
they only found her arm?
>>NOORY: They should have
all been intact, right?
>>MARTINI: Exactly.
Also, I said, so what did
they do with your body?
She said, they reburied me.
Who reburied you?
Saipanese villagers
who didn't feel
that my funeral was proper.
>>NOORY: Was appropriate.
>>MARTINI: So they reburied her
but they left behind her arm,
OK?
I said, where?
And Jennifer drew a map
of the exact location.
Now, Jennifer's never been
there but I had just been there.
So when she drew the map--
>>NOORY: And it was accurate.
>>MARTINI: I knew exactly
what she was pointing to.
I said, you mean your
body's still there?
Yes.
10 minutes after
this conversation,
I get a call from a
guy, a former NTSB guy,
who had seen documents,
classified information,
somebody else's book-- I don't
want to mention it because he's
going to reveal it-- but
ultimately, it corroborated
everything that I've said.
And he said to me,
Rich, everything
is true except when
they dug up her body,
they only found her arm.
>>NOORY: You already knew that.
>>MARTINI: 10 minutes
after I had heard it
from Amelia herself.
>>NOORY: That is a great story.
>>MARTINI: What's
the oddness of that?
So since then, I've
corroborated that.
"Chicago Tribune," 1977, they
interviewed those two guys who
dug her up and
they said, we only
found a partial rib
cage and an arm.
So Amelia left the rib cage
part out but I understood
what she was telling me.
>>NOORY: Communications
from the other side.
I want to read a couple
email questions in for you.
Nancy from Charlotte,
North Carolina.
Do you believe that we can all
find peace in the afterlife
despite our faults
on this planet?
>>MARTINI: Well,
it's in the data.
Let's put it that way.
And a matter of belief is
personal for every person.
All I can say is, that's
reflected in the data.
That ultimately, when we
get back to the other side,
we find complete peace and
we see that connectedness
between all people.
>>NOORY: Sandra, Washington DC.
Should we be afraid
of the afterlife?
>>MARTINI: Well, Sandra, what
are you trying to tell us?
Afraid of the afterlife,
in the sense of,
look, if you come here
and don't do things
that you signed up to do
and don't achieve the things
you signed up to achieve,
when you get back,
you meet up with your soul
mates and your spirit guides
and they go, what happened?
And you feel the terrible loss.
You feel the people you've hurt.
You re-experience all
of that negativity
that you've engendered but from
every person's point of view.
And imagine how
difficult that is.
So I'm not saying that people
don't experience the negativity
they engender here.
They do, according
to the reports.
But ultimately,
maybe months, years
after that, you get back to
your soul group and they go,
look, we love you.
You didn't do what you
were going to set out to do
but it's OK, man.
You've screwed up before.
We're going to fix it this time.
And so that's what's
reflected in the book.
>>NOORY: Are you sure that
the existence of the afterlife
is absolutely out there?
>>MARTINI: Well, it's
in the data, like I say.
If it wasn't, I would
doubt it myself.
I'm a skeptic.
Skeptic means
somebody who doesn't
believe in the prevailing
school of thought.
>>NOORY: But wants proof of it.
>>MARTINI: Well, and
ultimately, if you
allow yourself to
just look at the data,
what science asks us to
do is put data on a table.
If you can replicate
it and it's consistent,
then it becomes data.
So research--
ultimately, 35 people
have said precisely the same
things that I've filmed.
7,000 people that
Newton had cases with.
2,000 at--
>>NOORY: They all
say the same thing.
>>MARTINI: They all
We don't die.
So if I interviewed somebody,
Christopher Hitchens,
let's say, on the flipside.
And he said, I'm
not-- I've dissolved.
>>NOORY: I'm here.
>>MARTINI: Or not,
whatever he says.
You know, that's just
one point of view.
Just like "The Tibetan Book of
the Dead," one monk wrote that.
But if you get 7,000 monks
to say the same thing,
then you're going to
get a different story.
>>NOORY: "Hacking
the Afterlife," where
do people get the book, Rich?
>>MARTINI: Right now,
it's on-- it's exclusively
on Amazon Kindle and it's on
Audible starting this week.
So you can hear my
dulcet tones telling you
all about this research.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on the program.
>>MARTINI: I love you.
>>NOORY: I love you, too.
>>MARTINI: I love you more.
>>NOORY: Look, I'm in no
rush to get to the other side
but when it happens,
I'll be ready.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]